[Concept Entry] Java Calendar #2839 (#2899)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/calendar/calendar.md

---
Title: 'Calendar'
Description: 'An abstract class that represents dates and time and has methods for converting between a given moment in time and a number of calendar attributes.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`Calendar`** [class](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-java-classes-and-methods) is an abstract class that represents dates and time and has methods for converting between a given moment in time and a number of calendar attributes such as `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_MONTH`, `HOUR`, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Calendar`** [class](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/classes) is an abstract class that represents dates and time and has methods for converting between a given moment in time and a number of calendar attributes such as `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_MONTH`, `HOUR`, and so on.
```

Reviewer: generally, when possible, we link to other docs content

## Syntax

```pseudo
Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();
```

## Example

```java
import java.util.Date;
import java.util.Calendar;

public class CalendarExample {
    public static void main(String[] args) {

        Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();
        int year = calendar.get(Calendar.YEAR);
        int month = calendar.get(Calendar.MONTH);
        int date = calendar.get(Calendar.DATE);

        System.out.printf("Today's date is: %d/%d/%d%n", date, month + 1, year);
    }
}
```

The above code will output:

```shell
Today's date is: 1/8/2023
```

> In the above example, we created a `Calendar` object using the `getInstance()` method. Then we used the `get()` method to get the current year, month, date, and day of the month. Note that the month is zero-indexed, so we added one to it to get the correct month.

Reviewer: Typically we have a sentence before the example. Please move this before the code block and change the language accordingly. I also think it may be better to use a `set` method to create a specific date. That way the output will always match if someone wants to copy and run the code.

---
Title: 'Calendar'
Description: 'Calendar is an abstract class that provides methods for converting between a specific instant in time and a set of calendar fields'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`Calendar`** [class](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-java-classes-and-methods) is an abstract class that provides methods for converting between a specific instant in time and a set of calendar fields such as `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_MONTH`, `HOUR`, and so on. It also provides methods for manipulating the calendar fields, such as getting the date of the next week.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();
```

> ## Example

Reviewer: Please revise the example as well to further differentiate this from the example used on the geeks site

---
Title: 'Calendar'
Description: 'An abstract class that represents dates and time and has methods for converting between a given moment in time and a number of calendar attributes.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`Calendar`** [class](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/classes) is an abstract class that represents dates and time. The class has methods for converting between a given moment in time and a number of calendar attributes such as `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_MONTH`, `HOUR`, and so on.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();
```

> **Note:** The `.getInstance()` function creates an object that represents the current date and time.

## Example

> In the example below, we have created a `Calendar` object using the `getInstance()` method. Then we used the `set()` method to set the year, month, date, hour, minute, and second. Finally, we used the `getTime()` method to get the date. Note that the month is zero-based, so January is 0, February is 1, and so on. Also, we could have used the `set()` overload that takes all the parameters at once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below, a `Calendar` object is created using the `getInstance()` method. Then the `set()` method is used to set the year, month, date, hour, minute, and second. Finally, the `getTime()` method is used to get the date. Note that the month is zero-based, so January is 0, February is 1, and so on. Also, the `set()` overload could have been used that takes all the parameters at once.
```
We avoid first- and second-person pronouns in Docs.
